The compiler offers builtin constants and functions.
Some are only available on certain targets. All builtins use the `$$` name _prefix_.

# Builtin constants
These constants are generated by the compiler and can safely be used by the user.

## $$BENCHMARK_NAMES
An array of names of the benchmark functions.

## $$BENCHMARK_FNS
An array of addresses to the benchmark functions.

## $$DATE
The current date.

## $$FILE
The current file name.

## $$FILEPATH
The current file with path.

## $$FUNC
The current function name, will return _””_ on the global level.

## $$FUNCTION
The current function as an expression.

## $$LINE
The current line as an integer.

## $$LINE_RAW
Usually the same as `$$LINE`, but in case of a macro inclusion it returns the line in the macro rather than the line where the macro was included.

## $$MODULE
The current module name.

## $$TIME
The current time.

# Compiler builtin functions
The `$$` namespace defines compiler builtin functions.
These special functions are not guaranteed to exist on all platforms, and are ways to wrap compiler implemented, optimized implementations of some particular functionality.
They are mainly intended for standard library internal use.
The standard library have macros that wrap these builtins, so they should normally not be used on their own.

## $$trap
Emits a trap instruction.

## $$unreachable
Inserts an “unreachable” annotation.

## $$stacktrace
Returns the current _“callstack”_ reference if available. __OS__ and compiler dependent.

## $$volatile_store
Takes a variable and a value and stores the value as a volatile store.

## $$volatile_load
Takes a variable and returns the value using a volatile load.

## $$memcpy
Builtin memcpy instruction.

## $$memset
Builtin memset instruction.

## $$prefetch
Prefetch a memory location.

## $$sysclock
Access to the cycle counter register (_or similar low latency clock_) on supported architectures (_e.g. RDTSC on x86_), otherwise `$$sysclock` will _yield_ 0.

## $$syscall
Makes a syscall according to the platform convention on platforms where it is supported.

# Math functions
Functions `$$ceil`, `$$trunc`, `$$sin`, `$$cos`, `$$log`,
`$$log2`, `$$log10`, `$$rint`, `$$round` `$$sqrt`,
`$$roundeven`, `$$floor`, `$$sqrt`, `$$pow`, `$$exp`, `$$fma`
and `$$fabs`, `$$copysign`, `$$round`, `$$nearbyint`.

Can be applied to _float vectors_ or _numbers_.
Returns the same type.

Functions `$$min`, `$$abs` and `$$max` can be applied to any _integer_ or _float number_ or _vector_.

Function `$pow_int` takes a float or floating _vector + an integer_ and returns the same type as the first parameter.

Saturated addition, subtraction and left shift for integers and _integer vectors_: `$$sat_add`, `$$sat_shl`, `$$sat_sub`.

# Bit functions
## $$fshl and $$fshr
Funnel shift left and right, takes either two integers or two integer vectors.

## $$ctz, $$clz, $$bitreverse, $$bswap, $$popcount
Bit functions work on an integer or an integer vector.

# Vector functions
`$$reduce_add`, `$$reduce_mul`, `$$reduce_and`, `$$reduce_or`, `$$reduce_xor` work on _integer vectors_.

`$$reduce_fadd`, `$$reduce_fmul` works on _float vectors_.

`$$reduce_max`, `$$reduce_min` works on any _vector_.

`$$reverse` reverses the values in any _vector_.

`$$shufflevector` rearranges the values of two _vectors_ using a fixed mask into a resulting _vector_.